Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on Excel files with our.
And this lecture we're going to learn how to install packages that allow us to work with Excel files
within our in our studio.
Let's go out and jump to our studio to see how this all works.
All right.
So here we are our studio and the first thing we need to learn is how to install a package directly
from the Internet within our and our studio in order to actually work with Excel files.
Will you install a package called Read Excel to read them in there way we can install a package in our
is by typing install bot packages in go ahead and see that our studio actually completes this for us
.
So just click answer.
And then in single or double quotes type in the name of the package you want to download this case.
It's going to be read x.
I'll go ahead and click enter.
You should see after a while some sort of notification that you're installing the package.
You'll see something like this that shows that it's downloaded and you should see something that tells
you package unsuccess are successfully unpacked and checked and it should also tell you where it downloaded
it to.
Don't worry if you get a few warning messages as long as you get something that looks more or less like
this some successfully unpacked you saw that download timer or progress bar and then you have the downloaded
binary packages.
That's all you need to see.
In this case and again the line is just install packages and then pass in in quotes whatever package
you want to install.
Why not go ahead and clear the console of all this information.
Again don't worry if you get some warning messages you'll have to worry if you actually get errors.
Now let's go ahead and show you the Excel file We're going to be working with.
Going to go ahead and show you in Excel we're looking at some sample sales data is just made up sales
data and it's just the post code column.
A sales rep ID column some sales rep Name Year and value and then notice we have sheet names and just
intuitively we can already see that this basically looks like a data frame.
We have columns and rows of information and we can think of these sheets as items in a list.
So we're going to be able to store all of these different worksheets as items in a list or data frames
in a list.
So let's go ahead and now use read Excel to read in the sample sales data Excel file.
You can actually work with whatever Excel file you want for this presentation or the lecture.
I'm going to be working with this sample sales data Excel file.
So it's good and minimize this and jumped to our studio.
The first thing we have to do is actually call the library we just downloaded and you can do that by
saying library read excel.
And again our studio nicely will automatically tell you what packages you have or what libraries you
have in order to call them.
Something to note here maybe a little funny to you is that there's no quotes when you're calling the
library.
So you call quotes when you're installing the package but when you actually called library you don't
call any quotes.
All right.
They should be able to just click enter and load up the library.
Now that library or package is loaded into are going to be able to call functions from that package
.
One of the functions I want to use is Excel sheets.
And notice here and kind of gray brackets.
It says read excel.
That means that this function comes from this read Excel package going to go ahead and click on it.
You can just click enter and I'm going to pass in the path to that Excel file.
In this case I actually saved it.
So I go ahead and bring this out a little bit.
If I click on files I saved it to wherever I'm currently working with in our studio so I can see that
I have a sample sales data Excel X LS X file right here going to go ahead and set aside a little bit
.
If you don't have it saves to wherever your current directory for working in our in our studio is you'll
have to pass in the whole file path here.
This case I can just type in an S or capitalist's tab and it should tell me what options I have in this
case I've sampled their sales they know exactly what I want you can type it in all manually or begin
to type it and then click tab on your keyboard and our studio will autocomplete.
So if I go ahead and just run this this will list the sheets of the Excel file.
So in this case I only have one sheet.
It's sheet 1 and this is going to be really useful because the next command will allow me to actually
read the Excel file as a data frame.
So I'm going to make a variable called DMF and I'm going to use read underscore excel and again note
that this is from the read x l package.
So I'm going to read excel and the arguments you put in is the Excel file itself.
This case sample the hash sales Dasht data x l s x comma.
And then you're actually going to put in a second argument sheet and I'm going to go ahead and pass in
sheet 1
and now if I go ahead and check out the head of my data frame if I have successfully imported that Excel
file as a data frame and our So everything you've learned about are you can now perform on the Excel
file.
So for example if we quickly want to take the sum of the value column I could just say some E-F dollar
sign value and there's a total sum of that value column.
So hopefully you can find already how this is going to be really useful when you're taking an excel
file and want to use our to work with them.
You can also get quick statistical summaries of your Excel file by just passing that data frame that
we just imported using read Excel.
OK.
So let's again just briefly go over how he did this.
First thing you're going to do is call Excel underscore sheets to actually get the names of the sheets
that are in that Excel file and then each sheet in that Excel file is basically going to be represent
a data frame.
So then you say read underscore Excel pass in the source which is the SSX file and then pasand the sheet
name you actually want to import as a data frame.
So that's the way you can just import a single sheet in an Excel file as a data frame.
Remember I said we can imagine that an entire workbook with multiple sheets in an Excel file can be
sort of like a list in our where each item in the list is going to be a data frame representing each
sheet in the workbook.
So let me go in there and show you just how to download an entire workbook into Excel.
I can say entire underscore will turn underscore work that workbook is going to be a variable name.
This isn't a function and I'm going to go ahead and use L apply to essentially apply the Excel sheets
function over and over again onto the path of that Excel file.
So I say EHLO apply.
I'm going to apply excel under scoresheets on my sample data.
My sample sales data says My first argument second argument.
I'm going to do is whip's accidently clicked enter their second argument I'm going to do is read Excel
and then the third argument I'm going to say path and just go ahead and pass in the file path which
is sample sales data X X and there's my entire workbook.
Let me go in and clear this.
I have my entire adult workbook I'm using L apply remember l apply is the way we can apply a function
to an entire iterable object such as a list or vector.
In this case it's going to be Excel sheet surrender Excel sheets.
Return the names of all the sheets.
So basically what I'm saying is OK get me the list of all the sheet names apply read Excel to each of
those sheet names along the path of the Excel file.
Meaning if now I say entire workbook and call it out I get a list.
In this case it's a list of one.
Scroll up here since it's quite a large file.
My entire workbook only has one entry but you notice that double brackets here.
In the case that it's a list so that's the way you can upload an entire workbook and you can check the
notes in case you ever want to reference this code.
But you just say apply Excel sheets to wherever your Excel file is.
Apply the read Excel function and say the path over your Excel file is and then we can call specific
data frames or sheets off of this workbook in order to work with them and are all right.
So we went over reading excel files.
Now let's talk about writing two Excel files.
So in order to write two Excel files we're actually going to need to download another package and that
package is going to be the x l s x package.
So I going to do it again.
Say installed packages.
Type in x l s x notice and typing it in quotes.
Went ahead and clicked enter and now we slowly get the download notice you'll see and Salling package
etc..
I'm going to go ahead and quickly jump to finished the download.
All right I went ahead and jumped to the finished download notice.
You may also download a few other packages which are just dependencies for the elex package.
But again this was the install procedure installed packages and in quotes.
X l s x.
OK let's go in and clear the console and see how we can write to an Excel file.
First thing I have to do is call library and pass in Excel S6 which allows us to write to excel files
.
So I call it will also load other required packages such as our Java and this SSX jar's.
Now as far as writing to an Excel file will x LS X makes it super easy.
Imagine we have our empty cars.
Data frame.
So we have empty cars.
That's just the head of it and I want to write the entire empty car's data frame into an Excel file
.
Well in that case I just cannot call right dots.
Xcel sex passin the file I want to write.
In this case you're going to always be a data frame pretty much usually.
You may write a matrix but you're usually writing a data Frinton Excel file will pass in empty cars
and then you just pasand the file location or path you want to write this to.
I'm going to go ahead and say output example dot x.
Sex an in quotes and that will go ahead and write that Excel file.
So then I can go ahead and open this with Excel and if I take a quick look at my files over here on
the right.
Notice I have an output example.
X L-A sex all the way here at the bottom which is the most recent file.
Ok that's really all there is.
As far as reading and writing to excel files.
Keep in mind that if your Excel files maybe have complicated macros or some sort of function or equation
inside of those files importing it the way we just showed is only going to be able to keep the information
you're not going to be able to import more advanced functionality such as like VBA code or other things
that are going on in your Excel file when you're importing Excel files into our into a data frame object
.
You should really just consider the only have the information shown upfront as the cells are data points
in that Excel file.
OK go ahead and reference the notes in case you want to ever read and write Excel files but that's it
for this lecture.
I'll see you at the next one.